Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 
it will greet me with "greetings" and will ask me what my favorite color is
Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 
it asked me what my favorite color was in the terminal
What do you think the program did with what you typed?
it saved my response to the folder where all my files are saved


Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 
this will print the color the user inputs after they say what their favorite color was
What do you think the color = input() will do? 
it will determine what color to output based on the users input
Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?
no, the print command simply types out my previous response after the question in the terminal


Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
it has an if/else statement ready to print depending on the color that is input
What is happening on lines 11–14? 
if/else statement, if its red it will say correct, if any other color it will print out "try again"
Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 
they are continuations of the previous lines of code and it does what the previous line is telling it to
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 
it will say try again
What does this tell you about "color"?
It is "Red" and only "Red" not "red"


Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
it has an if/else statement with an "or" variable in the if part of the statement
What problem is this trying to solve? 
It will make sure that either red or Red will make the code work, since they are both the same statement
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?



Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 

What problem is it trying to solve? 

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?



Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 

What would you guess .strip() is doing? 

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?



Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 

What is the purpose of line 11? 

Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 

Why are lines 12–19 indented? 

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 

What is the purpose of “count”? 

What is happening on line 22? 

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?